[Music]
if you've ever had to take a plane
somewhere you probably know how it feels
to have your flight delayed by several
agonizing hours but imagine being stuck
at the airport for a whopping 18 years
well one man didn't have to imagine at
all because that's exactly what happened
to him Mehran Karimi Nasseri
also known as Sir Alf and Moran stayed
in Terminal one of Paris's Charles de
Gaulle International Airport from August
1988 to July 2006 before his two decades
stay at the airport nazaries life was
nothing out of the ordinary he was born
in Iran in 1943 to a middle-class family
and he had a pretty typical childhood
when he was thirty he went abroad to
study at the University of Bradford in
the UK and three years later he went
back home nothing too special until you
find out what led up to his extended
stay within the walls of the parisian
airport now it's kind of hard to get the
story straight
because nasarah has changed the details
so much according to him he'd been
exiled from Iran and had his citizenship
revoked because of his political views
whatever the case the man asked for
political asylum from Iran for four
years he got nothing but rejections from
different European countries but in 1981
and the UN High Commissioner for
Refugees in Belgium granted Nasseri
official refugee status he could now
request citizenship in any European
country and after Nasseri had spent
several years in Belgium he decided that
he moved to the UK
his decision was connected with a family
secret
basically necessary was already an adult
when his mother told him that he wasn't
her real son
it turned out that his birth mother was
a Scottish nurse who'd had an affair
with his father this made necessary
eligible for British citizenship so
that's why he decided to get UK
citizenship now that he had refugee
status if only he'd known what was in
store for him he set off for the United
Kingdom in 1988 first Nasseri travelled
to Paris where he caught a plane to
London and that's where things started
to get murky when he arrived at Heathrow
Airport he didn't have his refugee
papers with him necessary claimed that
they'd been stolen on a train when he
was on his way from Belgium to Paris the
craziest thing is nobody could figure
out how on earth the man had managed to
get on a plane to London it was an
international flight and you can't just
fly to another country without a valid
passport and visa well whether it was
the airport or airline staff somebody
made a huge mistake so here he was in
London but unable to leave the airport
since passport control wouldn't let him
through without his papers I guess they
let him fly back to France without his
documents because that's exactly what he
did and thus we've come full-circle upon
his arrival at Charles de Gaulle Airport
things really started getting weird
since Nasseri didn't have his refugee
papers per se and passport control
authorities also wouldn't let him leave
the airport
he even got arrested and spent some time
in the airport jail for attempting to
enter the country illegally but since
his situation had no obvious solution he
was released now usually when a person
has lost their papers they get sent back
to their home country since they don't
need a passport to enter
but remember Nasseri was stateless so he
couldn't fly home on the other hand
France wasn't his country of citizenship
and he didn't have a visa or anything so
he couldn't enter it without a passport
either that's how this man got stuck at
the airport and made it his new home for
the next 18 years at first necessary
thought his airport stay wouldn't last
longer than a few days maybe weeks at
the most
then months went by thin years and the
man was still living in Terminal one so
how did he spend the next two decades
stranded in an airport you might wonder
[Music]
well he mostly stayed on his personal
red bench on the restaurant floor
reading books and newspapers and writing
down his experience in a diary his
luggage was always by his side and the
airport provided him with everything he
needed bathrooms showers and even
laundry services he had his meals in the
food court and he was surrounded by
stores so when he think about it
whatever he could possibly need was
literally a step or two away as for how
he had money to support himself all this
time well for the first few years he
lived on his savings but once his story
spread around concerned and generous
people started sending him some money
towards the end of his stay Nasseri
published his autobiography which also
brought him some cash besides he got
$250,000 from G Works after they made a
movie called the terminal which had been
inspired by his story by the way have
you seen this movie let me know down in
the comments but all that happened later
meanwhile Nasseri story started to
attract journalists from all over the
world it turned out that he could
potentially receive new papers but of
course there was a catch for Belgium to
reissue them he had to be there in
person it was too risky to send such
important documents through the mail
besides what kind of address is read
bench terminal one sharla Gaulle
International Airport you know just
imagine this vicious cycle you can't
leave the airport without documents but
you can't get new documents without
leaving the airport and that wasn't the
only problem
according to Belgium law if a refugee
leaves the country after they've been
accepted they can't come back well in
1995 seven years into his stay at
Terminal one Belgium agreed to send the
necessary documents by mail on top of
that France even granted necessary a
residence permit but the man was still
unhappy because in his opinion his new
documents were fake he explained that
the UK had given him British nationality
as well as the name sir alfred moran
back in 1981 but his new papers were
under his birth name moran Karimi
Nasseri and they had his nationality
listed as iranian which he said wasn't
factual the documents weren't the only
thing stopping Nasseri from accepting
the offer first of all if he agreed to
return to Belgium he'd have to live
under a social worker's constant
supervision what's more he was still
hoping to head to the UK as he'd
previously planned in a series longtime
lawyer Christian brje who tried to help
the stranded man first staggering 10
years was stunned to hear that his
client was refusing to leave terminal 1
you might be thinking why didn't
necessary just take the new papers leave
the airport and then change his name
yeah that would have been the most
reasonable thing to do
but you know you can't really judge the
guy too harshly that much time in an
airport would probably make you lose a
grip on reality in a 2003 interview for
GQ necessaries lawyer said that at first
his client was pretty sharp and his
story made total sense
but over time the details started
changing and getting mixed up to the
point that it became anything but
believable for example necessary would
say he was a Swedish national who got to
her ran by submarine in 2006 necessary
finally left the airport 18 years after
he'd first set foot there unfortunately
it wasn't his voluntary choice he gotten
sick and was taken to the hospital where
he spent six months after he was
released he moved to a hotel next to the
airport in 2008 France granted Nasseri
freedom but the still stateless and
homeless man has remained in the suburbs
of Paris
ever since then how long would or can
you stay at the airport before you start
losing your cool share your thoughts and
maybe some personal experience down in
the comments remember to give this video
a like share it with your friends and
click subscribe to stay here on the
bright side of life
[Music]